Exercise 12.1

1. Compare and contrast the database connection you built in Guide 12 (in Intellij IDEA) and this database connection (in GlassFish).
 Do we need both? If so, explain why; if not, explain why not.
 
The database connection built in Guide 12 is a JDBC connection between the Oracle CPDB database and the IntelliJ IDE.
The database connection for this lab is a connection between Glassfish and the oracle CPDB database. Since these connections are
for connecting different parts to the database, they are both needed.

Exercise 12.2
1. How does Intellij map the database tables into Java entity classes?
IntelliJ maps the database tables into Java entity classes using the Java Persistence API (JPA)
to generate the managed entity classes and O/R mapping from the imported database schema.

2. What does the PK class do?
The PK class defines and checks the correctness of the composite primary key for the PersonTeam table, so that the rows
of the PersonTeam table can be uniquely identified and can be used to identify person-team relationships.

3. Does Intellij default to field or property annotations?
IntelliJ defaults to property annotations as evidenced by the accessors and mutators in the entity classes.

Exercise 12.3
1. Does this application perform marshalling? If so, explain what the marshalling does; if not, explain why it’s not needed.
Yes, the application performs marshalling. The marshalling converts the representation of the database object into JSON format to
make it suitable for transmission.

2. Does this code perform any injection? Again, explain…
Yes, the code performs injection. It avoids direct object creation and does not have any hard dependencies. 
The @PersistenceContext annotation is used to inject an EntityManager onto our stateless session bean. This class can be tested in isolation
since a dependency injection is used.

3. What does the entity manager do in this code, if anything?
The entity manager in this code is used to find a person, given an id. It is also used to create the query for getting all the 
people in the database

Exercise 12.4