Exercise 11.1
c. Exploring the project structure — How do the external libraries (in the project pane) relate to J2SE and J2EE?
J2SE would consist of only the JDK external library. J2EE on the other hand, would consist 
of the JDK as well as the application server, Glassfish. 

d. Developing source code — Set the HTML title and body content to whatever you’d like. At what tier does this application run?

- The application is JSP (JavaServer Page), so it runs at the web tier.

e. Running the application &
Modifying the code and observing the changes — What server does this step use to serve up your application? For a 
hint, look at what’s served up at the URL: /. How does it compare with a typical web server?

- The step uses the local server, Glassfish, which is an application server. A typical web server does not 
serve up J2EE, whereas this one does. 

f. Exploring a run configuration &
Exploring an artifact configuration — Skim through these sections, making sure that you can 
find the application features they discuss. What is a WAR file?

- A WAR (web application archive) file is a JAR (Java Archive) file used to distribute resources that constitute a web application,
such as our JavaServer page, index.jsp.

g. You should now have a GlassFish server running to which Intellij can (“remotely”) deploy your WAR.
What’s the difference between “exploded” and non-exploded WAR files?

- Exploded WAR files, unlike non-exploded WAR files, do not have to be manually redeployed to the application server everytime changes are made.
For exploded WAR files, the application server is pointed at a folder containing the unzipped (exploded) 
contents of what would be inside WAR files. Non-exploded WAR files have to be deployed to the application
server to test the application.

h. Packaging the application into an EAR: Using Java EE Application support & 
Looking at other features (tool windows and facets) — Skim these sections but don’t implement them. 
Compare and contrast EAR and WAR artifacts.

- A WAR is a module that gets loaded into a web container of a Java Application Server. A web conatiner requires
the web module to be packaged as a WAR file. Enterprise applications are packaged as 
EAR files, and the may consist of one or more modules that can either be web modules (packaged as a WAR file) 
or EJB modules (packaged as a JAR file) or both. 

Exercise 11.2
b. What library does this application use for REST support?
- The application uses the javax.ws.rs library for REST support. 